readme.md, before:


# lib-datatable (v0.0.7)

A NodeJS library to manipulate an in memory table (array of arrays).

Use the library to create a `Datatable` object.
With a `Datatable` you can maniuplate a two dimesional array of data.
You can add and remove columns, get and set individual cell values, and 
convert to and from an array of Javascript objects.

Internally, all data is stored as an array of arrays.
This is an array of rows, each of which is composed of an array of cell values.
There is no restriction on the content of a Cell, it can be of any nativa data
type (e.g. number, string) or even a complex object.

A `Datatable` also maintains an array of column headings (`data.column_headings`).
Column headings are not required for the primary functions of a `Datatable` but are
used when converting a `Datatable` to and from an array of Javascript or JSON objects.
In such cases, a `Datatable` column corresponds to a field within the object.

Since the internal representation of a `Datatable` is an array of arrays with an
optional array of column metadata, a significant amount of overhead is avoided as
compared to an array of JSON objects.
That is, we are storing any object field names only once as column metadata rather
than repeating this information for each stored object.
This makes a `Datatable` take up much less memory and makes it an ideal format
for serialization and transmission of large data.


---------------------------------------------------------------------


## Getting Started

Install via NPM:
```bash
npm install @liquicode/lib-datatable
```


---------------------------------------------------------------------


## Simple Usage

### Include the Datatable library in your source code
```javascript
const LibDatatable = require( '@liquicode/lib-datatable' );
```

### Create a Datatable object
```javascript
let table = LibDatatable.NewDatable();		// Create an empty table with no rows or columns.
table.SetSize( 100, 5 );				// Resize the table to give it 100 rows and 5 columns.
```

### Add some data
```javascript
let counter = 0;
for( let row = 0; row < table.RowCount(); row++ )
{
	for( let col = 0; col < table.ColumnCount(); col++ )
	{
		table.SetValue( counter, row, col );
		counter++;
	}
}
```

### Read some data
```javascript
table.GetValue( 0, 0 ) === 0		// TRUE
table.GetValue( 'A1' ) === 0		// TRUE
table.GetValue( 0, 'A' ) === 0		// TRUE
table.GetValue( { row_num: 1, col_addr: 'A' } ) === 0		// TRUE

table.GetValue( 0, 1 ) === 1		// TRUE
table.GetValue( 'B1' ) === 1		// TRUE
table.GetValue( 0, 'B' ) === 1		// TRUE
table.GetValue( { row_num: 1, col_num: 2 } ) === 1		// TRUE

table.GetValue( 0, 2 ) === 2		// TRUE
table.GetValue( 'C1' ) === 2		// TRUE
table.GetValue( 0, 'C' ) === 2		// TRUE
table.GetValue( { row_index: 0, col_num: 3 } ) === 2		// TRUE
```


---------------------------------------------------------------------


## More Links

- [Library Source Code](https://github.com/liquicode/lib-datatable)
- [Library Docs Site](http://lib-datatable.liquicode.com)
- [Library NPM Page](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@liquicode/lib-datatable)

Commit message:

added column info; updated docs

readme.md, after:


# lib-datatable (v0.0.7)

A NodeJS library to manipulate an in memory table (array of arrays).

Use the library to create a `Datatable` object.
With a `Datatable` you can maniuplate a two dimesional array of data.
You can add and remove columns, get and set individual cell values, and 
convert to and from an array of Javascript objects.

Internally, all data is stored as an array of arrays.
This is an array of rows, each of which is composed of an array of cell values.
There is no restriction on the content of a Cell, it can be of any nativa data
type (e.g. number, string) or even a complex object.

A `Datatable` also maintains an array of column headings (`data.column_headings`)and application defined info objects (`data.column_infos`).
Column headings are not required for the primary functions of a `Datatable` but are
used when converting a `Datatable` to and from an array of Javascript or JSON objects.
In such cases, a `Datatable` column heading corresponds to a field within the source JSON object.

Since the internal representation of a `Datatable` is an array of arrays with an
optional array of column metadata, a significant amount of overhead is avoided as
compared to an array of JSON objects.
That is, we are storing any object field names only once as column metadata rather
than repeating this information for each stored object.
This makes a `Datatable` take up much less memory and makes it an ideal format
for serialization and transmission of large data.


---------------------------------------------------------------------


## Getting Started

Install via NPM:
```bash
npm install --save @liquicode/lib-datatable
```


---------------------------------------------------------------------


## Simple Usage

### Include the Datatable library in your source code
```javascript
const LibDatatable = require( '@liquicode/lib-datatable' );
```

### Create a Datatable object
```javascript
let table = LibDatatable.NewDatable();		// Create an empty table with no rows or columns.
table.SetSize( 100, 5 );				// Resize the table to give it 100 rows and 5 columns.
```

### Add some data
```javascript
let counter = 0;
for( let row = 0; row < table.RowCount(); row++ )
{
	for( let col = 0; col < table.ColumnCount(); col++ )
	{
		table.SetValue( counter, row, col );
		counter++;
	}
}
```

### Read some data
```javascript
table.GetValue( 0, 0 ) === 0		// TRUE
table.GetValue( 'A1' ) === 0		// TRUE
table.GetValue( 0, 'A' ) === 0		// TRUE
table.GetValue( { row_num: 1, col_addr: 'A' } ) === 0		// TRUE

table.GetValue( 0, 1 ) === 1		// TRUE
table.GetValue( 'B1' ) === 1		// TRUE
table.GetValue( 0, 'B' ) === 1		// TRUE
table.GetValue( { row_num: 1, col_num: 2 } ) === 1		// TRUE

table.GetValue( 0, 2 ) === 2		// TRUE
table.GetValue( 'C1' ) === 2		// TRUE
table.GetValue( 0, 'C' ) === 2		// TRUE
table.GetValue( { row_index: 0, col_num: 3 } ) === 2		// TRUE
```


---------------------------------------------------------------------


## More Links

- [Library Source Code](https://github.com/liquicode/lib-datatable)
- [Library Docs Site](http://lib-datatable.liquicode.com)
- [Library NPM Page](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@liquicode/lib-datatable)
